Energy regulator named new head of Britain's FSA finance watchdog
British Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown on Tuesday named the current head of the country's energy regulator as the new chairman of finance watchdog the Financial Services Authority (FSA).
Former senior banker Callum McCarthy begins what is one of the most important jobs in London's financial world in September, when incumbent Howard Davies steps down.
Davies is leaving to become chairman of the London School of Economics, one of the best-known parts of the University of London.
Brown said McCarthy would bring to the FSA "an unrivalled combination of experience of the public sector, experience as a senior practitioner in the financial services industry, and chairman of a highly successful regulator."
McCarthy currently heads the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, or Ofgem, which regulates Britain's privatised energy industry.
As well as previously holding senior positions at Barclays Bank, BZW and Kleinwort Benson, McCarthy was formerly a top civil servant at the Department of Trade and Industry.
Under Davies's watch, the FSA became Britain's sole regulatory body for financial services in November 2001, taking on the various functions of nine separate agencies.
Russia hints "peace camp" alliance with Germany and France is dying by Dmitry Zaks
Russian President Vladimir Putin's summit with the leaders of Germany and France may have been a failure that proves there can be no long-term "peace camp" alliance following the end of war in Iraq, government sources were quoted as saying at the weekend.
"Senior government officials, speaking in the corridors of power in Moscow, have no illusions about any long-term perspectives for the (Russian-German-French) axis," the respected Izvestia daily reported.
"Sooner or later Iraq will fall and Russia and the United Sates will resume normal relations," the senior Moscow official, who was reported to be close to Putin, told the paper.
"The situation in Iraq does not mean that we intend to get into an argument with the United States."
The comments indicate that Russia's nuanced position over the war in Iraq was becoming ever more scrambled, with Putin pushing to protect his budding friendship with US President George W. Bush in the face of strident opposition from the Russian media and other top Kremlin officials.
Analysts have long argued that Putin is far keener to preserve friendly relations with the United States than the pro-European, anti-war camps embedded in much of the Russian media and the foreign and defense ministries.
Russia's foreign minister expressed outrage at suggestions from a top Washington official last week that Moscow should forgive the eight billion dollars in Soviet-era debt that Baghdad owes it, as a gesture of good will.
Kommersant business daily joined in, declaring in a furious front-page headline: "The United States is demanding that Russia, France and Germany pay for the Iraqi war."
And the popular Gazeta.ru news website stormed: "We should have expected this!..
This is only the start of a massive US campaign (to decide Iraq's future finances)."
Yet Putin has been far more reserved.
He and his loyal finance minister suggested Friday that Moscow might be prepared to waiver some of the Iraqi debts in return for better Russia-US relations.
"On the whole the proposal is understandable and legitimate," Putin said.
"Russia has no objections to such a proposal."
Putin concluded his two days of talks in Saint Petersburg with Jacques Chirac of France and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder on Saturday still urging for a central role for the United Nations in a post-war revival of Iraq.
The call reflected the insistent demand made by the three leaders before the US-British invasion of Iraq that UN approval was essential for any mission to topple Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.
But the Saint Petersburg summit ended without any formal declaration on Iraq.
And diplomats noted that Putin appeared uncomfortable at being so closely associated with the anti-Washington stance of Schroeder and Chirac amid his developing friendship with Bush.
Putin had even secretly invited British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Bush's staunchest backer in the war on Iraq, to attend the pow-wow in Saint Petersburg's Grand Hotel Europe, although diplomats said Blair turned the offer down.
It remains to be seen how successful Putin's overtures to Washington will be in the face of the fervent internal hostility to the US war stance.
A senior lawmaker seen as close to the Kremlin ridiculed the United States Sunday for failing to find any weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
"We do not think that America won," said Dmitry Rogozin, the head of the lower house of parliament's foreign affairs committee, told Rossia television.
"Where are those chemical weapons?"
And Putin's media aide, Sergei Yastrzhembsky, told Kommersant Russia would not forgive the Iraqi debt.
"(Washington) should not be so generous at other people's expense," he said.
Lebanese Prime Minister Hariri resigns: official statement ATTENTION - ADDS details, background ///
Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri submitted his resignation Tuesday and it was accepted by President Emile Lahoud, who asked him to stay on in a caretaker role, according to an official statement.
Hariri submitted his resignation during a 10-minute meeting with the head of state at the Baabda presidential palace, outside the capital.
The statement did not give any reason for the move, but said Lahoud would begin consultations Wednesday aimed at the formation of a new government.
Hariri has headed the country's government for nine of the past 11 years, and highly placed governmental sources said he would probably stay on in the job.
The current government was formed in October 2000.
Under the power-sharing arrangement reached following the end of Lebanon's 15-year civil war in 1990, the prime ministerial post is always held by a Sunni Muslim and the presidency by a Maronite Christian.
Married for the second time, Hariri has five children.
A businessman whose fortune is estimate at 10 billion dollars, he has interests in banking, real estate, oil and manufacturing.
He also owns a television and a radio station and a newspaper.
Three hacked to death in India over witchcraft allegations
GUWAHATI, India, April 17 (AFP)
At least three members of a family in Indias northeastern state of Tripura were hacked to death by a tribal mob for allegedly practicing witchcraft, police said Thursday.
A spokesman said a group of 25 to 30 armed men Wednesday attacked a house belonging to a village quack doctor in Tultuli, 60 kilometers (38 miles) south of Tripuras state capital Agartala.
"The mob dragged out three members of a family and (killed) them with machetes and spears before fleeing the area," the spokesman said by telephone from Agartala.
The dead included the quack doctor, 55-year-old Nityalila Naotia, his teenaged son and another member of the family, whom he did not identify.
"It was believed Naotia was a practicing sorcerer and through his black magic he had cast evil spells on villagers, prompting a group within the village to eliminate them," the spokesman said.
Police have arrested four people in connection with the killings.
Superstitious beliefs, black magic and demonology are integral to the tribal custom in parts of Tripura and other northeast Indian states.
Many tribes practice faiths believed to be a mix of black magic and superstition.
Russia misplayed Iraq hand, but damage to US relations not fatal: analysts by Dmitry Zaks
Silence is golden -- especially when your hand is weak -- top Moscow policy analysts said in an assessment of the fallout from Russia's vocal opposition to what turned out to be a swift US-led campaign in Iraq.
Several top diplomacy experts told a Kremlin-run forum that countries like China and India that said little about the conflict before its March 20 launch were already reaping the benefits.
Some suggested that Russian President Vladimir Putin will now be scrambling to contain the damage to his once-budding friendship with US President George W. Bush because he was poorly advised by his intelligence and defense aides.
One analyst said China -- which like Russia and France wields a UN Security Council veto but never threatened to use it to prevent the war -- recently won its role as chief mediator between the United States and North Korea because other regional powers' confidence in Russia fell as a result of its Iraqi diplomacy.
"We are losing our positions in Asia because ... this failure of a strategic triangle that (Foreign Minister Igor) Ivanov invented with Germany and France," fumed Andrei Piontkovsky of Moscow's Center of Strategic Studies.
Negotiations between Washington and Pyongyang on their nuclear dispute have been set for April 23 in Bejing and are widely seen here as a blow to Moscow efforts to stamp authority on the region by organizing such a meeting.
Meanwhile the European "peace camp" troika finds itself in tricky diplomatic isolation from Washington.
French President Jacques Chirac received only a reserved response when he tried to mend fences by placing a telephone call Tuesday to Bush.
Meanwhile German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has not spoken to Bush since several weeks before the start of the war.
But not everyone here agreed that Moscow's diplomatic relations with Washington had suffered as badly.
Most agreed that Russian diplomacy miscalculated and urged Putin to quickly reassess the quality of his advisers.
"Our analysis of foreign policy is lacking and often reverts to Cold War stereotypes," said former deputy foreign minister Anatoly Adamishin.
"We were so proud of forming an antiwar bloc with France and Germany -- but nations have not been forming such blocs for at least 12 years and someone in Moscow should have understood that it was impossible to avert this war."
"Our main goal now is to make sure that our relations with the United States do not suffer further -- and I think this is possible."
US diplomats have hinted in recent weeks that Washington's anger with European resistance to the campaign was focused more on Paris -- and to a lesser extent Berlin -- than it was with Moscow.
Putin last spoke to Bush on April 5 at the US president's own initiative.
They are scheduled to meet next in the Russian leader's native city of Saint Petersburg in late May.
"We lost nothing and won nothing -- this was not our war," said liberal lawmaker Irina Khakamada of the Union of Rightist Forces.
"We showed the Americans that we would not give up on our position in Iraq cheaply and we did not.
We should continue sticking to our principles."
Khakamada argued that the United States would also need Russia's help "to make the new Iraqi government seem legitimate."
Most analysts linked Russia's opposition to a war in Iraq to fears that it will lose oil contracts that were sealed with the now-toppled regime of Saddam Hussein.
The floodgates of Iraqi oil are also now likely to open to world markets and hurt Russia's budget revenues -- which are heavily reliant on revenues from its own energy exports.
But few at the Kremlin forum suggested that Putin's own standing among voters will be hurt by Russia's apparent diplomacy failures.
Putin will face re-election in March 2004 and analysts noted that the war -- while opposed by most Russians -- was never turned by the Kremlin into a matter of national security.
"I do not think that this will affect the elections unless Russia's failure in Iraq is presented as an issue of national security -- and has not been yet," said Viktor Kuvaldin of a research center funded by former Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev.
Malaysia's Anwar loses appeal in sodomy case ATTENTION - ADDS Anwar quote, backround ///
KUALA LUMPUR, April 18 (AFP)
Malaysia's Appeal Court Friday refused to overturn the conviction and nine-year jail sentence imposed on ex-deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim for sodomy.
Anwar, 56, who this week completed four years in prison on a corruption charge, now faces an earliest possible release date of April 14, 2009 if he is given one third remission of his sentence for good behaviour.
The former heir-apparent to Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who says he was framed for political reasons, told reporters after his appeal was rejected:
"You must remember its pre-selected judges, most junior of the court of appeal, and its all scripted.
Mahathir's sacking of the charismatic and popular Anwar in September 1998 rocked Malaysian politics, with thousands of people taking to the streets to demonstrate their support for him.
Within weeks he was arrested and charged with sodomising an official driver several years previously and with abusing his powers to cover up the offence.
The conduct of the trials was widely criticised internationally and the United States still lists Anwar as a political prisoner.
Anwar was told Monday that he had been granted a standard one-third remission of a six-year corruption sentence for good behaviour, and immediately began to serve the nine-year sentence for sodomy.
"Jurassic Park" creator Crichton agrees to pay ex-wife 31 million dollars
LOS ANGELES, April 18 (AFP)
Best-selling novelist and "Jurassic Park" creator Michael Crichton has agreed to pay his fourth wife 31 million dollars as part of their divorce settlement, court documents showed Friday.
Crichton, 60, is one of the world's wealthiest authors, and has had 12 of his novels made into major Hollywood movies.
The writer will retain the rights to his books and films, although he has agreed to split a raft of other possessions with Anne Marie, his wife of 13 years, according to documents filed in Los Angeles Superior Court.
Anne-Marie will get the couple's 19-room home in New York state, which was on the market last year for 21.5 million dollars, as well as their fine art collection.
Crichton, a Harvard Medical School graduate, will keep a home in Hawaii and four cars, while the couple, who also each have homes in Los Angeles, will share custody of their 15-year-old daughter, Taylor.
Before the divorce, Crichton's fortune was estimated at 65 million dollars, built on such hit novels as "The Andromeda Strain," "The Great American Train Robbery" and "Westworld" and his hit television series "ER."
According to one report, he received 3.5 million dollars for the film rights to his latest book, "Prey," and has a 30-million-dollar, two-book deal with publishers Harper Collins.
Anne-Marie sued Crichton for divorce in September after their marriage broke down.
In December, Chinese archaeologists named a new species of dinosaur after the "Jurassic Park" author.
North Korea nuclear bombshell sparks alarm, appeals for calm by Charles Whelan = (PICTURE, GRAPHIC) =
US allegations that North Korea admitted to possessing nuclear weapons triggered alarm across Asia Friday and prompted appeals for calm from world capitals.
The admission, according to US sources, came during three-day talks in Beijing which concluded Friday, the first meeting between US and North Korean officials since the nuclear crisis erupted six months ago.
China expressed hopes that both sides would keep the dialogue alive while officials in Moscow and London called for patience in resolving the complex impasse.
South Korea and Japan were cautious, with Seoul Foreign Minister Yoon Young-Kwan saying if the North Koreans were telling the truth, it would represent a "major" threat to peace in Northeast Asia.
US sources with authoritative knowledge of the Beijing meetings said the head of the North Korean delegation Li Gun had confirmed to US envoy James Kelly that the Stalinist state had developed nuclear weapons and hinted it may sell or use them, depending on US actions.
"They said what we always knew, that they do have weapons," one US source said.
"That doesn't shock us, we have been saying it.
Now they have said it."
Li also told Kelly that North Korea had gone ahead with reprocessing 8,000 spent fuel rods at its Yongbyon plant, which could produce enough weapons grade plutonium for several more nuclear bombs, said the sources who requested anonymity.
An angry US President George W. Bush accused Pyongyang of reverting to blackmail following the nuclear admission and North Korea fired back with a charge that Washington had rejected a "bold" plan to resolve the six-month-old impasse.
The outcome of the talks plunged financial markets into freefall in Seoul with analysts saying they saw no sign of a recovery any time soon.
Despite the leaked details about the meetings, US officials publicly declined to confirm any of North Korea's announcements, with US State Department spokesman Richard Boucher saying comments made by North Koreans "require careful analysis."
China, playing host to the talks, tried to put a positive spin on the talks which Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing said signified "a good beginning."
"We hope that all sides can continue to make efforts to peacefully resolve the Korean nuclear issue," Li was quoted by the official Xinhua news agency as saying.
He said Korean nuclear issue was "very complicated and sensitive," but the key was to "not mind the other side's rhetoric," but "pay attention to its actions."
A top Russian foreign ministry official called for patience and Britain's Foreign Secretary Jack Straw echoed the call in a BBC radio interview.
Kelly, the US assistant secretary for East Asia and Pacific Affairs, arrived in Seoul from Beijing Friday to brief Yoon, the foreign minister.
"If it is true that North Korea possesses nuclear weapons, this would be a major breach of peace on the Korean peninsula as well as in Northeast Asia," said Yoon.
Kelly, who declined to talks to reporters here, travels to Tokyo Sunday for talks with Japanese officials.
He has made no public comments so far on the Beijing talks.
However US Secretary of State Colin Powell said the talks had featured "strong views" on all sides and insisted that the United States would not bow to blackmail, threats or "bellicose statements."
North Korea, in its first official comment on the outcome of the talks, accused Washington of ruling out Pyongyang's "bold" plan for peace while offering nothing new itself.
A North Korean foreign ministry spokesman, quoted by the official Korean Central News Agency, made no reference to the reports that North Korea had admitted to possessing nuclear weapons.
"At the talks the DPRK (North Korea) set forth a new bold proposal to clear up bilateral concerns of the DPRK and the US, and the parties concerned with the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula, at the same time," the unnamed official was quoted as saying.
"The US, however, repeated its old assertion that the DPRK should 'scrap its nuclear program before dialogue' without advancing any new proposal at the talks."
The official did not disclose what North Korea's bold plan was.
Pakistani Christian gets life imprisonment for blasphemy
MULTAN, Pakistan, April 27 (AFP)
A Pakistani court in central Punjab province has sentenced a Christian man to life imprisonment for a blasphemy conviction, police said Sunday.
Judge Shahid Rafiq, of the district court in the industrial city of Faisalabad, found Ranjha Masih guilty of defiling Koranic verses during a protest rally by the minority Christian community in 1998.
In a verdict handed down on Saturday, the judge also ordered Ranjha to pay a fine of 50,000 rupees (about 870 US dollars), they said.
Ranjha was accused of tearing down a billboard carrying verses from the Koran in Faisalabad during a Christian demonstration after the city's bishop committed suicide over the 1985 blasphemy law.
John Joseph, who had been campaigning against the law, shot himself in the head outside a court in Sahiwal district when the judge convicted Christian Ayub Masih under the law in 1998.
Ayub Masih was charged in 1996 with blasphemy for allegedly defending British author Salman Rushdie, whose novel "The Satanic Verses" infuriated radical Mulsim clerics who accused the author of defaming Islam.
The Pakistani supreme court last year aquitted Ayub Masih, who had denied uttering any word against Islam or the Prophet Mohammad.
Blasphemy is punishable by death under the Pakistan Penal Code.
However, no blasphemy convict has ever been executed in the country.
Christian rights activists campaigning against the laws, introduced by late military dictator General Zia-ul Haq, say they are mainly used to persecute Christians or to settle feuds over land.
NKorea offers to scrap nuke, missile programs but wants big concessions: US
WASHINGTON, April 28 (AFP) - North Korea has offered to scrap its nuclear weapons and missile programs, but only in return for "considerable" diplomatic, political and economic concessions, the United States said Monday.
Powell said the offer was made during three-way talks between US, North Korean and Chinese diplomats last week in Beijing.
At the same meeting Pyongyang confirmed it had nuclear weapons, and threatened to prove it with a "display."
"The North Koreans acknowledged a number of things that they were doing and, in effect, said that these are now up for further discussion," he told reporters at the State Department.
"They did put forward a plan that would ultimately deal with their nuclear capability and their missile activities, but they, of course, expect something considerable in return," Powell said.
"We are studying that plan, we are examining it with our friends and allies," Powell said, adding that talks were now underway with the South Korean, Japanese, Russian and Australian as well as other governments.
"It was useful to get it all out on the table and see where we go from here," he said, referring to the April 23 to 25 discussions in Beijing.
Powell gave no indication as to whether Washington would accept the offer, and did not address what Pyongyang was demanding in terms of concesssions.
However other US officials said the North Koreans had presented a lengthy list of demands.
The demands include full normalization of ties with the United States, security guarantees and economic assistance that include oil and other energy considerations.
"They had quite a list of things," State Department spokesman Richard Boucher told reporters.
Asked specifically about normalization of relations and economic assistance, Boucher replied: "I don't really quibble with that characterization of the list."
A senior State Department official said later that the list of demands was so extensive that it defied a "concise description."
"It basically listed everything they have ever asked for," the official told reporters on condition of anonymity, identifying oil and energy supplies as demands.
Although the North Korean demands are being looked at, Boucher repeated long-standing US policy that Washington would not be blackmailed or otherwise threatened into buying Pyongyang off.
"We've made clear we're not going to pay for elimination of the nuclear weapons programs that never should have begun in the first place," he said.
Powell acknowledged that North Korea had hinted it could prove it possessed nuclear weapons with some sort of display during the Beijing talks, but maintained that the North Koreans had not used the words "test" or "testing."
"They said that it is the kind of capability that one can display in one way or another," he said.
The concessions demanded by Pyongyang were part of a "bold" proposal for addressing the nuclear situation on the Korean peninsula that North Korea presented in Beijing, officials said.
South Korean newspapers reported earlier Monday that the North suggested that Pyongyang and Washington act simultaneously and equally to resolve the six-month-old nuclear crisis.
Boucher ruled out simultaneous steps by both sides, stressing that Washington would not consider such moves until the "verifiable and irreversible termination" of the north's nuclear programs.
"We (have) made clear that once North Korea did that, we could move on or move back to the comprehensive approach to US-North Korea relations that we had talked about before," he said.
Ilbo newspapers and others quoted unnamed South Korean government sources as saying Pyongyang also urged Washington not to hinder its efforts to establish and improve ties with Seoul and Tokyo.
The North's ruling Workers Party newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, indicated Sunday that North Korea wanted economic and political "rewards" from the United States in return for the elimination of its nuclear program.
Rodong called for a "fair and equal" footing in talks with the United States, blasting Washington for insisting that there would be "no security of the system nor provision of rewards" even if Pyongyang gave up its nuclear program.
It insisted North Korea could do "everything" to defend itself if the United States "legally guarantees no use of arms including nukes".
South Korea's ruling party faces call for dissolution
South Korea's ruling party is facing an internal reformist call for dissolving itself to create a new group after a humiliating defeat at last week's by-elections, party officials said Tuesday.
The ruling Millennium Democratic Party (MDP), founded by former president Kim Dae-Jung, has suffered declining popularity since President Roh Moo-Hyun took office in February.
A group of 18 reformist MDP lawmakers, mostly Roh's confidants, demanded late Wednesday that the party be "constructively dissolved" to create a new grouping, MDP officials said.
But the established MDP leadership has opposed the sudden overhaul, they added.
Reformist MDP members, however, vowed to launch a preparatory committee next month and to make "tangible progress" in the process of forging a new party.
The internal dispute erupted after the MDP lost three parliamentary seats in Thursday's by-elections.
The opposition Grand National Party (GNP) took two of the National Assembly seats while a splinter reformist party got the third.
With the latest wins, the GNP increased its majority in the 272-seat National Assembly to 153 seats against 101 for the MDP.
General elections are due in April next year.
Australia's first listed bordello plans sex Disneyland
The Daily Planet Ltd, about to become the first brothel to list on the Australian Stock Exchange, plans to follow up its May Day launching by opening a "sex Disneyland" here, the Melbourne-based bordello announced Wednesday.
Chief executive Andrew Harris said the company was likely to abandon plans to acquire a hotel in Sydney's Kings Cross red light district and acquire another property three times the size in a better location.
The Daily Planet raised 3.5 million dollars (2.2 million US) in its initial public offering with one of the new 600 shareholders acquiring 1.0 million dollars worth of shares.
Renowned Hollywood madam Heidi Fleiss has been flown to Melbourne as guest of honour at Thursday's market debut and, according to Harris, has already played a key role in attracting worldwide media attention to the event.
"Heidi's ideas, her background, her knowledge have helped us a great deal," he said.
"The international novelty value with Heidi promoting it has been massive -- these shares can go anywhere."
But it hasn't been an easy road to the Australian Stock Exchange since the idea was first mooted in 1994.
"The establishment did not want a brothel on the stock exchange," Harris said.
"It's only because we were the biggest and the best that we could afford to do it.
"We have fought every institution, every law firm ... it's cost us a fortune but now we're going on a massive expansion."
Harris said Sydney was a more attractive option for the sex Disneyland because its prostitution laws are less restrictive than Melbourne's.
"Prostitution is completely decriminalised in Sydney and we are going to build a monster," he said.
"We want a complete one-stop adult venue -- we want a complete adult venue with adult cinemas, adult shops... we have found much bigger premises in a much better location to create a sex Disneyland."
The company is also considering franchising The Daily Planet within Australia with likely venues in Perth, Brisbane, Sydney's western suburbs and a second venue in Melbourne.
But The Daily Planet is saving its big plans for the United States where it is negotiating with two well-known US personalities to join the board.
"The United States is our major thrust," he said.
"We want to build a little city called Metropolis with a 150-200 room hotel in Nevada."
Troubled French media group Vivendi set to sell theme parks: report
LOS ANGELES, May 2 (AFP)
Beleaguered French media group Vivendi Universal is in advanced negotiations to sell its theme park business to a US firm for around 1.5 billion dollars, the Los Angeles Times said Friday.
The report came as the indebted group said it was planning to sell off its US unit Vivendi Universal Entertainment and other assets, to focus on its telecoms activities and its French cable television business.
The Times said Vivendi Universal was negotiating to sell its flagship theme parks to New York investment firm Blackstone Group as a the first step toward dismantling its entertainment empire.
Vivendi Universal officials in the United States were not immediately available for comment on Friday.
Under the reported plans, Blackstone Group would buy Vivendi's theme park division, including Universal Studios Hollywood, Universal Orlando in Florida and Universal's ownership interests in parks in Spain and Japan, a source close to the negotiations told the paper.
Blackstone already holds a 50 percent stake in the two parks that make up Universal Orlando.
Vivendi earlier this week confirmed months of press speculation that it planned to shed its entertainment assets by the end of the year, including its famed Universal movie studio and television assets.
Chief executive Jean-Rene Fourtou told shareholders at the group's annual general meeting Tuesday that the sale of Vivendi Universal Entertainment was a major goal for 2003, and that negotiations were already under way.
However, Fourtou said he had not yet received any firm offer for its giant US music business, Universal Music Group, and had taken no final decision over its future.
The group, once a French utilities company, needs to reshape itself in order to slash its huge debt burden of around 18 billion dollars.
In 2002, the group recorded a net loss of 23.3 billion euros -- the biggest ever in France -- on sales of 28.7 billion.
Head of Iran's largest daily quits after conservatives win Tehran city hall
The pro-reform director of Iran's biggest-selling daily newspaper and official organ of Tehran's municipality has stepped down following the appointment of a conservative as the city's new mayor, press reports said Sunday.
Mohammad Atrianfar, who had headed Hamshahri (Fellow Citizen) since it was founded a decade ago and was a major backer of reformist President Mohammed Khatami, explained that he wanted to "leave the new mayor with a free hand to choose a director" of the paper.
Tehran had been governed by reformists since 1989, but a conservative city council was elected in the February 28 municipal polls in a result attributed to a meager turnout amid growing public disillusionment with electoral politics.
Mahmud Ahmadi-Nejad, reported to be a hardliner among conservatives, was appointed mayor on Saturday and a change in Hamshahri's management -- as well as its editorial line -- has been considered inevitable given the election result.
Founded by former mayor Gholamhossein Karbaschi, Hamshahri was quick to become Iran's biggest-selling daily with a circulation of 450,000.
It also built up healthy finances, carrying scores of pages of private advertisements daily.
British bank Barclays to buy Spanish rival Zaragozano
British bank Barclays announced on Thursday it had agreed to buy Spanish rival Banco Zaragozano for 1.14 billion euros (1.29 billion dollars) in cash.
"The combination of the banking operations of Barclays Spain and Zaragozano will bring together two complementary businesses, creating a nationwide distribution platform, trebling the existing Barclays branch network and trebling its existing customer base," Barclays said in a statement.
"The acquisition of Banco Zaragozano builds on our existing business creating the sixth largest private sector banking group in Spain" by assets, added Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto, chief executive of Barclays Spain.
"It provides a platform for us to intensify and strengthen our competitive position in the Spanish banking market, to the advantage of our customers, employees and shareholders."
The members of the board of Zaragozano have voted in favour of the transaction and have committed to sell their shares to Barclays.
Shareholders, including board members, owning 54 percent of the ordinary share capital of Zaragozano have given irrevocable commitments to accept the offer.
The takeover, which is subject to approval by 75.01 percent of Zaragozano shareholders, is expected to be completed in July.
Jailed Anwar to attend daughter's wedding after bail hearing
KUALA LUMPUR, May 8 (AFP)
Malaysia's prison department has agreed to allow jailed politician Anwar Ibrahim to attend his daughter's wedding ceremony Friday after his bail hearing, his lawyer said Thursday.
Anwar will be taken to the appeal court early Friday for a bail application pending his appeal to the country's highest Federal Court againt his sodomy conviction, counsel Sankara Nair said.
Prison authorities have given the nod for Anwar to be taken home later in the afternoon to marry his eldest daughter, Nurul Izzah, to engineer Raja Ahmad Sharir Iskandar in a traditional Malay ceremony, he said.
But this is also conditional on police approval.
"They have to get the green light from police.
We have given an assurance that there will not be a huge crowd at the house as the guests will only comprise of family members," he added.
The former deputy premier, sacked by Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in 1998, was sentenced to a total 15 years in jail after being convicted of corruption and sodomy.
He completed four years in prison on a corruption charge last month and is now serving a nine-year sodomy sentence.
He lost an appeal case on his sodomy sentence on April 18.
Another appeal is now pending in the Federal Court.
Anwar, 56, says he was framed to prevent him from becoming a political threat to Mahathir, an allegation the government denies.
Budget cinema launched by eastJet founder finally gets some films
A ground-breaking British budget cinema chain launched by the founder of low-cost airline easyJet announced Friday that it had finally acquired some films to show -- just a fortnight before it first opens.
EasyCinema, which aims to sell tickets to its no-frills cinemas for as little as 20 pence (0.28 euros, 0.32 dollars), has been locked in a bitter battle with film distributors over how it wants to pay for titles.
Rather than splitting ticket sales with distributors, easyCinema wants to pay a fixed fee for rights to show first-run movies over a fixed period, a proposal thus far rejected by the film majors.
EasyCinema founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou, who set up easyJet in 1995 and built it up into Europe's biggest budget airline, has vowed to take legal action against the distribution firms unless they allow him access.
The deadlock, and subsequent lack of any films, has been threatening to de-rail the debut of easyCinema's first outlet in Milton Keynes, just north of London, which is due to open its doors on May 23.
However the firm announced on Friday that it had reached a deal with the British arm of French distributors Pathe to show four releases.
While not the latest Hollywood blockbusters, these include titles such as as recently-released US martial arts picture "Bulletproof Monk" and new British 1930s-based weepie "The Heart of Me".
Haji-Ioannou professed himself "delighted", but promised to push ahead in his battle with other distributors.
"The situation with the top six UK distributors representing more than 90 percent of the market is still in a deadlock," he said.
"I have instructed my lawyers to discuss this issue with the Office of Fair Trading."
EasyCinema aims to make its money by drawing the public in with rock-bottom prices during off-peak hours, when traditional cinemas are often almost empty, also giving the biggest discounts to tickets bought long in advance.
To cut costs, all booking is done via the Internet and the pared-down cinemas have no popcorn stalls and skeleton staff.
Israeli FM meets Qatari counterpart in Paris
Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom on Wednesday stressed Qatar's role in the Middle
East peace process during talks with his Qatari counterpart Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jabr al-Thani in Paris.
Shalom told a joint press conference that the tiny Gulf state's strong relationship with the recently appointed Palestinian prime minister, Mahmud Abbas, could be a boost for peace.
"We discussed the Middle East peace process.
Over an hour of talks, we asserted the will of both parties (Israel and the Arab world) to do everything to return to the negotiating table," Shalom said.
"Qatar is a very important country on this issue.
I know the special relationship that the Qatari foreign minister has with Abu Mazen," he said, using Abbas's alternative name.
The meeting was Shalom's first encounter with an Arab counterpart since he took office as Israel's foreign minister on February 27.
Qatar has economic links with Israel without maintaining diplomatic relations, in the face of criticism from other Arab countries.
Afterwards Shalom was to fly on to London for talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw.
MCI to pay huge fine to SEC for accounting fraud: report
MCI, formerly WorldCom, and the Securities and Exchange Commission have reached a final agreement in the telecom giant's 11-billion-dollar (9.4-billion-euro) fraud case, The Wall Street Journal reported Monday.
Under terms of the agreement, to be submitted as early as Monday to a judge presiding over the case, MCI would agree to pay the largest fine imposed so far by the SEC on a company that is not a broker-dealer, the Journal said, citing sources close to the matter.
The report did not give the amount of the fine, but said it would be "exponentially larger" than the historic 10 million dollars Xerox paid the SEC last year.
Last month, the SEC slapped fines totaling 1.4 billion dollars on 10 Wall Street brokerages to settle charges of conflicts of interest between analysts and investors.
MCI and the SEC negotiated the agreement for months after a partial settlement in November under which MCI, formerly known as WorldCom, agreed not to mislead investors about its finances, and to improve internal controls, the Journal said.
The estimated value of the fraud has reached historic proportions, swelling from the initially announced 3.5 million dollars to 11 million dollars as revelations of misconduct piled on, the report said.
Separately, former WorldCom CEO Bernard Ebbers failed on April 29 to make a first repayment of 25 million dollars, plus interest, on a 400-million-dollar loan from MCI, the Journal said, citing SEC documents.
Because he is now in default MCI must now seize additional assets owned by Ebbers, to secure the loan.
The company has already sold his Georgia-based yacht building business for 15 million dollars, and is close to selling his ranch in British Colombia, which is expected to bring 60 to 70 million dollars, the Journal said.
Shiites openly mark Mohammed's birthday in Iraq as lawlessness still reigns = (PICTURES) =
Shiite Muslims in Iraq Monday celebrated openly for the first time in decades Prophet Mohammed's birthday, as continuing anarchy and chaos threatened to undermine US efforts to rebuild the war-ravaged country.
Meanwhile coalition officials in Iraq insisted plans for an Iraqi government were still on track and Russia hinted that a compromise could be imminent on a UN draft resolution to lift economic sanctions on Iraq.
Thousands of Iraq's majority Shiite Muslims marched to their main mosque in Baghdad to mark the birthday of Islam's founder Prophet Mohammed.
Shiites, who celebrate the birthday a week later than Sunni Muslims, were forbidden to publicly mark the date under the regime of Saddam Hussein's Sunni-dominated regime.
The crowd filled the street leading to the Kazimiya mosque in the northeast of Baghdad and carried banners in the green color of Islam, calling for good government.
"No to injustice," "No to occupation," "No to Israel," "Yes to Islam," chanted the demonstrators as speeches began from a platform.
Imam Mohammad al-Fartussi, who last week threatened violence against "sinful" women, alcohol vendors and cinemas showing "indecent" films, offered praise for the fall of Saddam and called Iraq "the land of imams... land of Islam."
The demonstration came as Iraq's top US overseer Paul Bremer began his second week on the job amid continuing lawlessness in the country.
In his frenzied first seven days, the telegenic Bremer repeatedly promised to restore the law and order that crumbled along with Saddam Hussein's regime nearly six weeks ago.
But despite issuing a host of tough decrees, Bremer has failed to stem the rampant crime and street violence plaguing the country.
Despite a security crackdown over the weekend in Baghdad and an announcement that some 7,000 policemen had returned to their jobs since the end of the war, ordinary Iraqis still felt unsafe on the street with gunfire rife and police a near invisible presence.
In Baghdad, almost all the police stations have been destroyed or looted since US troops took control of the capital on April 9.
Only two have so far reopened, and they have no equipment whatsoever.
Baghdad's top police job remains vacant.
And a trip to Baghdad's looter market only bears witness to the fact that criminals are ruling the roost in the post-Saddam era.
Packed with the piles of stolen goods picked up during the frenzy of theft that followed the collapse of Saddam's regime, the traders deal in everything from computers and stereos to furniture and weapons.
Jalal Jamil, a 45-year-old jewellery store owner, said the situation just keeps getting worse.
"The Americans encourage people to steal because when looting happens right under their noses they do nothing," he said.
Bremer has also been criticized for backing away from an earlier US timeline on forming a government in Iraq, but US-led coalition officials Monday insisted government plans were still on track.
"We want to have an Iraqi voice in everything we do here but it would be wrong to do that precipitously," said a source at the Organisation of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance (ORHA), which is administering post-war Iraq.
Officials from Iraqi groups that met with Bremer last week have said that he back peddled on what they said were earlier pledges to give them a lead role in forming a new interim government in the next few weeks.
"We understand that they want to have as much power as possible but we told them:
'You won't be directly elected, you won't have any direct experience of government," the source said.
"'Of course you will have input into the government but, since you are not directly elected, it would be a nonsense for you to have direct executive power,' the source said.
"The last thing we want is to leave a bunch of self-appointed oligarchs in power," the source said.
The comments came on the same day that a prominent Iraqi called for internationally-supervised elections in Iraq.
Adnan Pachachi, a onetime foreign minister who returned to Iraq on May 6 after 33 years in exile, told the independent Az-Zaman daily that elections should be held under international supervision.
An interim government should create an election code and laws to clear the way for direct elections to a constituent assembly, that would draw up a constitution, Pachachi said.
A referendum on the constitution would lead to elections for a new government, the 80-year-old Pachachi told the daily.
On the diplomatic front, a top Russian official said Monday that the UN Security Council would likely vote this week on a US-British draft resolution to lift economic sanctions placed on Iraq in 1990 after its invasion of Kuwait and to place its oil riches under coalition control for at least a year.
"An updated text of the document may already be published today and may be put to a vote this week," Deputy Foreign Minister Yury Fedotov told ITAR-TASS news agency.
Yet Fedotov did not say whether Russia would back the resolution, which diplomats have been revising since the United States, Britain and Spain first submitted it more than a week ago.
Russia "will vote depending on what the resolution text turns out to be," he said.
With billions of dollars in oil and debt interests in Iraq, Russia has been anxious to secure UN involvement before supporting the resolution.
Australia announced the creation Monday of an expert panel to help Iraq protect its rich cultural heritage and assist Interpol in recovering looted ancient artefacts.
Chinese leader favours Russia in first foreign tour by Henry Meyer
Highlighting close ties between Moscow and Beijing, Chinese President Hu Jintao Monday will make Russia his first foreign destination since becoming leader in a visit that could seal a major pipeline accord.
Hu, who was appointed to the top job in March, will meet his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin during his three-day state visit from May 26 to 28.
He will then stay on for a regional summit before heading to Saint Petersburg for celebrations marking the 300th anniversary of the city's founding.
"This upcoming visit to Russia will be my first trip aboard since I became president of China.
I plan a thorough exchange of views with President Vladimir Putin on bilateral and important regional and international issues," Hu said in an interview with Russia's Interfax news agency.
"Our discussions should strengthen political trust between the two sides and mutually beneficial cooperation to raise Russian-Chinese relations to a new level," he added.
Putin, who enjoyed a warm relationship with former Chinese president Jiang Zeming, has made efforts to nurture ties with Hu and was the first world leader to go to Beijing to meet him in December when he was president-in-waiting.
"Presidents Vladimir Putin and Hu Jintao have developed good personal contacts, which will undoubtedly facilitate the promotion of the Russian strategic partnership," Russia's ambassador to China Igor Rogachyov said, quoted by Interfax.
Russia has given a high priority to its relations with the United States despite a bitter disagreement over the US-led campaign to topple Saddam Hussein in Iraq.
But China remains a key Russian ally, demonstrated by the fact that Hu will be the only foreign leader apart from US President George W. Bush to hold a summit with Putin in the days surrounding the Saint Petersburg festivities.
Leaders of the two Asian giants, according to UFG financial brokerage, may ink a deal for the construction of a 2,400 kilometre (1,500-mile) oil pipeline from eastern Siberia to the Chinese city of Daqing, bringing Russian crude to energy-hungry China.
Although the Russian government is formally committed to building an extension of the pipeline that would supply Japan through the Russian port of Nakhodka, experts believe that project is unlikely to see the light of day.
Russian oil giant Yukos, whose output will be shipped through the pipeline, had lobbied furiously for the Chinese route although the state pipeline monopoly Transneft argued that it was wrong to tie strategic Russian energy resources to the whims of a single buyer.
"Single customers are always a danger.
However, the project makes economic sense," commented Asia expert Dmitry Trenin, deputy director in Moscow of the Carnegie Center, a Washington-based think tank.
The shorter Chinese route, a 2,400-kilometre project, would cost around half the Japanese pipeline, at 2.5 billion dollars (2.15 billion euros), and would need to transport just 20 million tonnes a year to be economic.
China, whose booming economy has turned the country into an increasingly valuable economic partner for Russia, especially in its backward far eastern regions, is also a major purchaser of Russian weapons.
"It's a very important relationship.
China is a very dynamic neighbour and a rising world power.
In many ways it is far ahead of Russia," Trenin said.
The Chinese president expressed the hope that bilateral trade could be raised from its current level of 12 billion dollars a year to 20 billion dollars.
Analysts however cautioned against any attempt to turn the focus from economic cooperation to a broader strategic alliance, given that both sides opposed the war in Iraq.
"The Chinese are trying to establish a rapport (between Hu and Putin) and this is in Russia's interests.
However, this rapport should not serve the role of forming an alliance to counter American dominance in the world," said Trenin.
"A lot can be said for an amicable, neighbourly relationship between Moscow and Beijing and this is what the rapport should serve," he added.
Bush looking forward to seeing Chretien at G8
US President George W. Bush told Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien by telephone Monday that he looked forward to seeing him at the upcoming summit of major industrialized nations and Russia, the White House said Tuesday.
"The two leaders discussed the upcoming G-8 meeting, US-Canada (relations) and other international issues of concern," Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer said days before the June 1-3 summit, to be held in France.
"Both said they look forward to seeing each other in Evian.
They also touched on Afghanistan, the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and on the global economy," said Fleischer.
Amid a chill in relations over the war in Iraq, which Canada opposed, Bush indefinitely postponed a visit to Canada, instead choosing to host Australian Prime Minster John Howard, who endorsed that military campaign.
On Monday, Chretien told reporters that he and Bush, who had not spoken since late February, discussed a wide range of issues, including Iraq, the upcoming summit of the Group of Eight industrial powers and aid to Africa.
"We've always been on good terms.
We just disagree on one item," the Canadian leader said.
Enron mulls suing banks for bad advice
NEW YORK, May 28 (AFP)
Bankrupt energy giant Enron Corp is considering bringing legal action against its own bankers for giving bad financial advice that helped lead to its downfall, the Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday.
The Houston energy company, which has been the target of a slew of investigations into alleged financial deception, filed a pair of motions in federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan in April, said the daily.
It added that the move is part of a new push under the leadership of new chief executive officer Stephen Cooper to settle all the litigation involving Enron and its bankers, shareholders and creditors.
Enron's principal bankers, including JP Morgan Chase and Citigroup, and along with numerous other Enron advisers, have already been sued by the company's shareholders for allegedly helping the company hide debt, and they face investigations from regulators over their involvement.
Besides JP Morgan and Citigroup, the other Enron advisers include Bank of America, CSFB, Merrill Lynch, UBS, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers Holdings, ABN Amro, Barclays PLC, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, WestLB AG and National Westminster Bank PLC, now part of Royal Bank of Scotland PLC.
Singapore doctors to perform risky operation on Iranian twins
Singapore doctors will proceed with an unpredecented and risky operation to separate a pair of adult Iranian twins joined at the head, a hospital official said Friday.
The official, who asked not to be named, said the decision to go ahead with the operation is expected to be announced to the media on Monday by doctors and executives of Raffles Hospital, where the surgery will be carried out.
A team of specialists here have been conducting tests on the female twins, Laleh and Ladan Bijani, since last year to determine if the operation can be successful.
The twins, both qualified lawyers aged in their late 20s, are joined at the head and the operation involves separating two individually functioning brains encased within a single bony structure, neurosurgeon Keith Goh said in December.
The pair flew to Singapore last year after hearing of the successful surgery on Nepalese babies Ganga and Jamuna Shrestha, who were separated in a 97-hour operation at a hospital here.
Attempts by Laleh and Ladan to have their operation elsewhere in the world were rejected, with doctors in Germany saying one or both of them could die.
Bush, Putin pal up after Iraq spat, but Iran row simmers
ATTENTION - ADDS Russian foreign minister, US official quotes ///
SAINT PETERSBURG, June 1 (AFP) - US President George W. Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin said Sunday their friendship was as strong as ever, laying aside a dispute over the Iraq war, but barely concealing a simmering row over Iran's nuclear program.
After talks in Saint Petersburg's grand Konstantinovsky Palace, they also warned North Korea to abandon its nuclear aspirations and signed documents implementing the Moscow Treaty, which mandates sharp cuts in Cold War nuclear weapons stocks.
Swapping smiles, handshakes and hugs at a joint press appearance after talks linked to Saint Petersburg's 300th anniversary celebrations, Bush and Putin set out to recreate the buddy atmosphere of their previous encounters.
"Our relations are stronger than the events that tested it," said Putin, stressing that despite diverging over Iraq, Russia and the United States had many common interests.
"It is precisely these things that enable me to call President Bush my friend, not only personally -- because I do like him a lot -- but as my counterpart and the president of a friendly nation," he said, earning a grin from Bush.
But both men observed an uneasy truce over US concerns about Russian aid to the nuclear program of Iran, whom Bush has labeled part of an "axis of evil" that also included Iraq and North Korea.
"We are concerned about Iran's advanced nuclear program and urge Iran to comply in full with its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty," Bush said.
A senior US diplomat said Bushehr remains one of the biggest irritants in Russia-US relations.
"We think that it would be wise for Russia to go slow on the Bushehr project until the wider Iranian nuclear program is more clearly understood," the US diplomat said after the informal summit talks.
"Our belief is that any proliferation, coming from any source, should be stopped."
The United States believes that what Iran says is a peaceful civilian nuclear program is a pretext for weapons manufacture.
Washington has been pressuring Russia to stop building a nuclear power plant in Bushehr, southern Iran, which it has so far declined to do.
"I appreciate Vladimir Putin's understanding of the issue and his willingness to work with me and others to solve this potential problem," said Bush.
Putin insisted that the two sides were "closer than they seem" on the issue.
"We do not need to be convinced of the fact that there should no proliferation of weapons of mass destruction," he said.
But in a sharp remark that jolted the bonhomie, Putin warned Russia was not yet ready to sever nuclear ties with Iran.
"We are against the pretext of using the nuclear weapons program in Iran as a lever in unfair business competition against us," he said.
Bush signalled that Russia would not pay a similar price as France and Germany for opposing the US-led war in Iraq, inviting his "good friend" Putin to his weekend retreat outside Camp David in Washington in September.
Putin last visited Bush at his Texas ranch in November 2001.
There was no word on the fate of billions of dollars of Russian oil contracts in Iraq, whose oil industry is now under the administration of the United States and Britain in line with latest UN resolutions, which Russia was persuaded to back.
But Putin noted that "Russian companies have a wealth of experience operating in Iraq and we intend to continue our cooperation in this area, with Iraq and in Iraq."
"What the president (Putin) meant was that at times, and we have come across this, there were unreasonable complaints about Russian companies' cooperation with Iran," said Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov, pointing the finger clearly at the United States after the summit.
Bush and Putin also signed formal documents putting into effect a strategic arms reduction treaty that slashes the two sides' nuclear weapons to a range of 1,700 to 2,200 nuclear warheads by the year 2012.
Bush arrived in Saint Petersburg on Saturday, when he also briefly met German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, whose opposition to the Iraq war had soured his relationship with Washington, at a dinner hosted by Putin.
Bush and Putin were scheduled to leave straight after their talks for the Group of Eight summit of the largest industrialised nations in Evian, France.
India's bachelor PM, president making country "dry, arid, infertile"
NEW DELHI, June 7 (AFP)
A provincial chief from India's main opposition Congress party has told an election rally that India is suffering nature's "curse" because both the president and prime minister are bachelors, a report said Saturday.
The Times of India newspaper quoted Digvijay Singh, chief minister of the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, as saying that Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee and President Abdul Kalam had offended the Hindu rain God Varuna by remaining bachelors.
"The country is being ruled by a bachelor president and an unmarried prime minister.
This according to the Hindu shastras (books) is very inauspicious and that is the reason there is a widespread heatwave and drought," said Singh.
"Not just Prime Minister Vajpayee but President Kalam's bachelor status is making the country dry, arid and infertile," he added.
The general secretary of Vajpayee's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, Pramod Mahajan, retorted that Singh's statement was "beneath contempt."
India's has been reeling under a heatwave since mid-May which has killed 1,403 people.
The country's western desert state of Rajasthan is also bracing for its fifth straight year of drought.
Mother held after a second baby found dead in Wisconsin
MADISON, Wisconsin, June 16 (AFP)
The skeleton of a second baby has been found at a rural Wisconsin home where a 22-year-old woman's dead infant was discovered in a blue plastic container June 8, officials said Monday.
Kristin Scott, the mother, told police she gave birth secretly to both babies at her parents' home in Byrds Creek, Richland County, one of unknown sex in April 2001 and the other, a fullterm girl, January 14.
Police arrested her in Abilene, Texas, Saturday where she had moved with a friend June 2.
She is being held on 50,000 dollars bail on a charge of first-degree reckless homicide and hiding a corpse in the death of the infant born in January.
Scott told police she did not tend to the baby, and it died after 30 minutes.
She said the baby had to die, according to the criminal complaint.
The woman's parents, William and Nancy Scott, found the decomposing body of the first baby in her closet after they went looking for the source of a foul odor in their house.
Scott told investigators she had moved that body around before she moved to Texas, sometimes in the closet at the Byrds Creek house, in the trunk of her car and in the closet of her apartment in Richland Center, the complaint said.
The sheriff released no other details about the second baby.
Rachel Hunter seeks divorce from pop icon Rod Sewart -- finally
LOS ANGELES, June 17 (AFP)
Supermodel Rachel Hunter on Tuesday filed for divorce from her estranged rocker husband Rod Stewart, four years after the couple separated, court papers showed.
Hunter, 34, filed for divorce in Los Angeles Superior Court, citing irreconcilable differences with the 58-year-old rock star to whom she has been married for nearly 13 years.
How the assets of the couple -- they have a daughter, Renee, 11, and a son, Liam, 8 -- will divided has yet to be decided, the documents showed.
The celebrity couple spit up very publicly four years ago and each has since had well-publicized relationships with others.
New Zealand-born Hunter reportedly had a fling with British pop star Robbie Williams, while British star Stewart has been much photographed with his reported girlfriend, blond photographer Penny Lancaster.
Stewart has said that after two failed marriages, he felt it unrealistic to expect couples to commit to each other for life and suggested that the words "til death do us part" should be removed from the wedding ceremony.
Stewart's 1979 marriage to Alana Hamilton lasted five years and produced two children.
The raspy-voiced singer who once dated Britt Ekland is best known for hit songs including "Maggie May," "Do Ya Think I'm Sexy," "Tonight's the Night" and "Young Turks".
US insurer AIG to take over GE unit in Japan: reports
Major US insurance group AIG is in the final stage of talks to take over General Electric's Japanese life insurance arm in a deal to create Japan's sixth largest life insurer, reports said Wednesday.
American International Group Inc. is likely to acquire all shares in GE Edison Life Insurance by the end of September and also take over GE's US car and fire insurance operations, the reports said.
The total purchase cost is estimated at 300 billion yen (2.5 billion dollars), the business daily Nihon Keizai and news agency Jiji Press said.
Co. Ltd. is a key Japanese life insurance unit of US conglomerate General Electric Co.
No officials at the AIG Tokyo office or GE Edison were immediately available to comment on the reports.
GE Edison would be AIG's third life insurance unit in Japan following Alico Japan and AIG Star life Insurance
The acquisition of GE Edison is expected to boost AIG's annual life insurance premium revenue in Japan to about 1.1 trillion yen, ranking it sixth in the Japanese life insurance business.
Israel hands over Rafah border crossing to Palestinians ATTENTION - RECASTS with return to pre-intifada positions, ADDS details ///
GAZA CITY, June 30 (AFP)
Palestinian security forces returned Monday to the positions they held in the Gaza Strip before the outbreak of the 33-month Palestinian uprising as Israel removed all major checkpoints in the coastal territory, a Palestinian security source said.
Police officers took up their positions across the Gaza Strip, enjoying a freedom of movement they have not known since the intifada exploded in September 2000, the source said.
"Palestinian police have taken over all the posts and positions they held before September 28, 2000.
It is the first time they have had freedom of movement with cars and weapons since the start of the intifada," the source said.
The move marked a huge step forward in carrying out the US-backed Middle East "roadmap", which aims to end the months of bloodshed and create a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Following the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the northern town of Beit Hanoun late Sunday, police took up positions there and in the neighbouring town of Beit Lahiya, he said.
They also deployed along the border with Israel.
The handover is a credibility test for the Palestinian Authority, which must show it means business when it comes to reining in hardline groups plotting attacks on the Jewish state.
In another first in the almost three-year intifada, the Israeli army allowed Palestinians free circulation on the trans-Gaza highway as troops abandoned three major checkpoints across the coastal territory.
Traffic was flowing freely through the Netzarim junction, just south of Gaza City, the Kissufim junction by Deir al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip, and the Guest House junction just south of Deir al-Balah after the army withdrew.
The three military checkpoints on the highway, which runs the entire length of the Gaza Strip, had transformed the trip from north to south, ordinarily a 30-minute ride, into a grinding two or three-hour ordeal and came to symbolise the horrors of occupation.
"Israel has implemented most of the agreement except for a few issues," the source said, pointing out that Israel had still not removed two military observation posts at the Kissufim junction and the Guest House junction.
Although there was free movement along the trans-Gaza highway, several other roads remained temporarily closed, he said.
The Karni-Netzarim road, which runs east-to-west across the route, was still closed as was the section of the highway passing close by Kfar Darom settlement, just south of the Guest House junction, he said, adding both were likely to be opened in the coming weeks.
Another road, leading from the southern border town of Rafah to Khan Yunis, would be opened within 10 days, he said.
Adressing Palestinian complaints, an Israeli military source confirmed troops had installed a gate at the Netzarim crossing and at the southern Guest House junction but said that they were only there for when Jewish settlers needed to use the road.
A ban on Palestinian men under the age of 35 being allowed to move freely was still in force but that was expected to be lifted later on Monday or early Tuesday.
The army also handed over control of Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt to the Palestinians, security sources said.
Six Palestinian police officers were allowed to return to the Palestinian section of the border crossing, which had been taken over by Israeli troops shortly after the start of the uprising.
Oslo accords, which granted a measure of autonomy to the Palestinians, the Rafah border crossing with Egypt was to be jointly managed by both Israel and the Palestinians, although Israel had final control over the zone.
Although the crossing has, in principle, been open for movement between the two territories -- while being frequently closed by Israeli for reasons rarely explained -- the Palestinian section has been manned by Israel for more than two years.
White House raises possibility it might not seek U.N. vote With EU-GEN--Turkey-US-Iraq; UN-GEN--N-Iraq
With opposition hardening, the White House left open the possibility Tuesday that it would not seek a United Nations vote on its war-making resolution if the measure was headed for defeat.
It is not necessary,'' presidential spokesman Ari Fleischer said.
The comments came as President George W. Bush and his advisers looked beyond the diplomatic showdown and made plans for a public relations buildup to potential war.
One option under serious consideration was Bush giving Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein a final ultimatum, perhaps with a short-term deadline, in a major address next week, two senior White House officials said.
The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, stressed that a variety of options are on the table and they all depend on the outcome of a U.N. Security Council debate on the U.S.-backed war resolution.
The United States still doesn't have the nine votes needed to win approval of the resolution, according to supporters and opponents, and many undecided council members are looking for a compromise.
Even if he gets the required votes, Bush needs to avoid a veto by Russia, France or China who all favor continuing inspections at least into July.
Once the vote is resolved one way or another, Bush will intensify his case for war, officials said, barring unforeseen events such as Saddam suddenly disarming or going into exile.
In addition to a possible address, they have discussed a presidential news conference and a Cabinet meeting as ways for Bush to communicate his plans to the nation next week.
As those discussions were taking place behind the scenes, Fleischer told reporters that Turkey would lose a proposed $15 billion aid package unless it admits troops into the country for the Iraq conflict.
``The particular package that we've been talking to them about was predicated on assistance and cooperation in any plan for the use of force against Iraq,'' Fleischer said.
Until Tuesday, the spokesman had suggested part of the package would be available to Turkey regardless of whether 62,000 American troops are allowed in the country.
White House officials said they were turning up pressure on Turkey in hopes that the parliament would grant the U.S. request on a second vote.
Even so, officials said future aid for Turkey would not be ruled out, just the massive package under consideration now.
At the United Nations, Secretary-General Kofi Annan called Baghdad's missile destruction ``a positive development,'' putting him at odds with Bush's assessment.
Russia's Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov, hardening Moscow's opposition to quick military action, indicated Russia may use its veto against the U.S.-backed resolution.
Both developments further complicated Bush's efforts to win passage of the resolution, adding significance to talk of what the administration would do if U.N. opposition cements against the U.S.
``The president has made clear, that ... whether the United Nations votes or does not vote, that we will disarm Saddam Hussein with a coalition of the willing,'' Fleischer said.
``We are proceeding with all the plans for the vote.''
``Now, if you are asking me if all of a sudden support around the world crumbles and there is absolutely no one for it, I can't predict with metaphysical certitude every eventuality,'' Fleischer said.
U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte was asked whether the United States would withdraw the resolution if it didn't have the votes to pass it.
``We haven't crossed that bridge,'' he said.
``We believe that support should be there.
We are not facing that kind of situation but we will cross the bridge when we come to it.''
Afterward, he and other White House officials said the remarks did not signal a lack of confidence in the resolution's prospects.
Milosevic's wife to face trial
Slobodan Milosevic's wife will go on trial next week on charges of mismanaging state property during the former president's rule, a court said Thursday.
Mirjana Markovic, the power behind the scenes during Milosevic's 13-year reign, is accused of illegally providing their grandson's nanny with a state-owned luxury apartment in Belgrade in 2000.
The Belgrade district court said that Markovic will be tried along with 10 other Milosevic-era officials who face similar charges of ``inappropriate use of state property'' that carry a sentence of up to five years in jail.
The trial will start on March 13, the court said.
Milosevic and his wife wielded enormous power in Yugoslavia for more than a decade before he was swept out of power after a popular revolt in October 2000.
The post-Milosevic government later extradited him to the U.N. war crimes tribunal in The Hague, the Netherlands.
Since then, many of Milosevic's political and business allies as well as his two children have been accused of crimes.
Markovic, the leader of the neo-communist Yugoslav Left party, lost her parliamentary immunity from prosecution after she failed to become a deputy in the parliament of Serbia and Montenegro, the country that last month succeeded Yugoslavia.
Emboldened by U.N. report, Iraq calls for end to sanctions
Emboldened by the latest weapons inspectors' report, Iraq on Saturday called on the United Nations to remove crippling sanctions and to ban weapons of mass destruction in the entire Middle East _ and eventually in the United States.
Iraq resumed destroying banned Al Samoud 2 missiles under U.N. supervision Saturday after taking a day off, crushing six more in a process that chief inspector Hans Blix called a ``substantial measure of disarmament.''
In the past week, Iraq has destroyed 40 of its 100 Al Samoud 2 missiles, prohibited by the United Nations because some tests indicated they could fly farther than 150 kilometers (93 miles).
It also has been destroying equipment used to make them.
Reports to the Security Council on Friday by Blix and chief nuclear inspector Mohammed ElBaradei praised Iraq's recent compliance.
But inspectors also questioned Iraq's motivation, as it began to give the inspectors what they wanted only when the threat of war became immediate.
U.S. President George W. Bush said the reports indicated that only a war will make Iraq disarm.
``Unfortunately, it is clear that Saddam Hussein is still violating the demands of the United Nations by refusing to disarm,'' he told Americans in a radio address Saturday.
Iraq, however, took the report as an endorsement of its work and argued not only that war plans should be canceled, but that sanctions imposed on it by the Security Council for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait should be removed.
``We demand that the Security Council and the world decide on ... the lifting of sanctions on Iraq in a comprehensive and complete way,'' said a spokesman for a meeting Saturday of Saddam and top-level officials, quoted by official Iraqi news media.
The unidentified spokesman claimed the weapons inspectors had verified Iraq has rid itself of weapons of mass destruction _ something the inspectors said would take months to do _ and appealed for a ban on such weapons to be extended beyond Iraq: to Israel, and eventually to the United States.
The spokesman, reporting on the meeting, said Iraq called on the Security Council ``to rid the Middle East of weapons of mass destruction since Iraq has become free of them.''
``At the front of those that must be rid of these weapons is the Zionist entity,'' he said in a reference to Israel, adding that the order should ``move on after this region to America.''
The newspaper Babil, a popular daily owned by Saddam's son Odai, also said Saturday that the reports of Blix and ElBaradei were enough to suspend the sanctions, which are to be removed when the United Nations verifies that Iraq has no weapons of mass destruction or the means to make them.
In a front-page editorial, Babil said the reports should push Security Council members ``to think seriously about issuing a resolution lifting the sanctions imposed on Iraq, since it was proven that we don't possess weapons of mass destruction.''
Saddam has long claimed Iraq destroyed all its weapons of mass destruction.
The United States and Britain claim he's lying, and have assembled a quarter-million troops around Iraq for a possible invasion.
Despite Iraq's demands of the Security Council, diplomats were working hard on very different proposals: a U.S.-led plan for disarmament or war by March 17, and a rival French plan for an emergency summit of Security Council members to come up with a compromise.
Bush and top advisers planned to lobby allies by telephone through the weekend and up until next week's planned vote on the ultimatum.
French President Jacques Chirac talked to heads of state in an effort to drum up support for his plan, his office said.
Inspectors' spokesman Hiro Ueki said Iraqi workers crushed six Al Samoud 2 missiles Saturday at the al-Taji military complex north of Baghdad, under the supervision of weapons inspectors.
Three of the missiles had warheads and three didn't, apparently because they hadn't been deployed.
Inspectors also supervised the destruction of tools and ``special equipment used to produce the Al Samoud 2 engine'' at the Al Samoud factory, he said, and another group of inspectors verified the emptying of Al Samoud 2 warheads at the Qa Qa complex just south of Baghdad.
Odai al-Taie, a senior Information Ministry official, said the workers crushing the missiles took Friday off because they had worked on Tuesday, the Muslim new year.
Ueki described Friday as a ``planning day'' for teams working on missile destruction.
Ueki said an Iraqi chemical scientist granted an interview to weapons inspectors, bringing to eight the number of scientists who have given interviews since Feb. 28, when Iraq began urging them to talk.
Since the same date, four scientists have refused.
Interviews with nuclear scientists have been conducted more frequently because the nuclear inspectors don't mind the scientists tape recording the interviews, a sticking point for the chemical and biological teams.
Inspectors also returned to a former helicopter airfield where Iraq buried bombs it says were armed with biological weapons in 1991.
Ueki said inspectors there took samples from the remainders of stainless steel containers Iraq says it used to transport biological agents.
Report: Hong Kong Jockey Club in talks to acquire its Macau rival
The Hong Kong Jockey Club is in talks about buying out the horse racing club in neighboring Macau, a newspaper reported Tuesday.
The South China Morning Post quoted Hong Kong Jockey Club Chief Executive Lawrence
Wong as saying the discussions were underway, but no price was reported.
The Hong Kong club is a charitable entity, while the Macau Jockey Club is a for-profit concern controlled by gambling tycoon Stanley Ho.
Hong Kong angered Macau's gaming industry last year when it banned gamblers in Hong Kong from placing horse bets with anyone but the Hong Kong Jockey Club.
Macau had been taking off-track bets from people in Hong Kong, but the offices handling those wagers were closed.
The Macau club later threatened to start taking wagers on Hong Kong races in Macau, at a better price for gamblers because less tax would be levied, but the plan never materialized.
Neither club immediately returned phone calls from The Associated Press to inquire about the buyout talks.
Macau is a gambling enclave 60 kilometers (40 miles) west of Hong Kong that was governed by the Portuguese for more than four centuries before it returned to Chinese sovereignty in 1999.
Hong Kong, a former British colony, returned to Chinese rule in 1997.
Turkish party leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan named prime minister, may push to allow in U.S. troops
The charismatic leader of Turkey's governing party was named prime minister Tuesday, a step that probably boosts chances that the United States will get permission to deploy troops in the country along Iraq's northern border.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who favors the deployment, hinted that he will reshuffle the Cabinet, but gave no indication if he would purge officials who opposed letting in the troops as analysts have suggested he might do.
Erdogan is extremely popular in Turkey and is likely be one of the few leaders with enough clout to unite his party and gain public support for allowing in the U.S.
Turks overwhelmingly oppose a war _ by 94 percent, according to some polls.
Earlier this month, the Turkish parliament shocked the United States by rejecting the deployment by just four votes.
Erdogan has hinted that he will resubmit the resolution for approval, which could take another week.
The United States is pressing Turkey to act quickly.
Ships carrying equipment for U.S. troops are already waiting off the Turkish coast
In Washington, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Richard Myers told a Pentagon news conference Tuesday that the United States would ``have a northern option whether or not Turkey fully supports all our requests.
``I'm not going to talk about the operational ways of doing it, but just be assured there will be a northern option,'' he said.
Also in Washington, Turkish Ambassador Farouk Logoglu told The Associated Press that the U.S. and Turkish militaries were holding informal discussions on the use of Turkish airspace.
The troop-basing resolution would allow the United States to use Turkish airspace.
If the resolution is not passed, Washington would likely want to use the airspace for strikes against Iraq and for airlifting troops to northern Iraq.
Refusing access to the troop deployment would mean Turkey would lose a US$15 billion U.S. aid package that Washington has offered to help cushion the country's economy if there is war.
It would also threaten Turkey's possible role in the future of Iraq.
Turkey, which fears northern Iraqi Kurds may declare independence in the aftermath of a war, has been pressing for a say if Saddam Hussein is ousted.
Secession by Iraqi Kurds could inspire
Turkey's rebel Kurds, who for 15 years have been fighting for autonomy.
After he was elected, Erdogan said Turkey wanted assurances from the United States on its role in Iraq.
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday there had been talks that Turkish troops could be deployed ``a short distance from their border to try to avoid refugee infiltration.''
Iraqi Kurds fear that Turkish troops could move deep into the autonomous enclave in northern Iraq and have threatened clashes.
Rumsfeld also said that like Turkey, the United States doesn't want to see a breakaway state: ``Our interest, needless to say, is to see that Iraq remains a single country,'' he said at the Pentagon news conference.
Prime Minister Abdullah Gul resigned earlier Tuesday to make way for Erdogan, who won a parliamentary seat in by-elections Sunday.
Gul will remain as a caretaker prime minister until President Ahmet Necdet Sezer approves Erdogan's Cabinet, a move that could happen as early as Wednesday.
Erdogan said he would submit his Cabinet list to the president ``as soon as possible,'' and leaders of Erdogan's Justice and Development Party met Tuesday evening.
When asked about possible changes in the Cabinet, Erdogan said: ``Perhaps there will be a small amount of change, a certain number of revisions.''
Gul's resignation had been long expected.
Erdogan heads the party but was constitutionally barred from running in November elections because he was jailed in 1999 for anti-secular activities.
The Justice party changed the constitution after taking power in the elections.
Erdogan, a leader of Turkey's pro-Islamic movement when he was jailed, said he moderated his policies in prison.
His party considers itself conservative and no longer uses the word 'Islamic' in its literature.
He now also advocates letting in U.S. troops for a war against Iraq even though it is a fellow Muslim state.
Unlike the soft-spoken Gul, Erdogan has a reputation as a fighter.
``Erdogan will be willing to engage in a bruising confrontation in a way that Gul was not willing to,'' said Bulent Aliriza, an analyst at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies.
``If Erdogan decides that for his own reasons, and not U.S. pressure, he wants this, he will push it through.''
Tensions over the basing agreement spilled over into parliament Tuesday when opposition deputy Ufuk Ozkan shouted ``You are all American lackeys!'' at members of Erdogan's party, the Anatolia news agency reported.
A furious Justice party member, Fehmi Husrev Kutlu, rushed toward Ozkan, bumping into him and sending his eyeglasses flying, Anatolia reported.
Other legislators surrounded the two to head off a brawl.
EU rift over Iraq remains as France, Germany denounce U.S. move to war
Europe's divide over Iraq loomed ever larger Tuesday with France and Germany denouncing the U.S. move toward war while British Prime Minister Tony Blair said ousting Saddam Hussein now was key to solving similar crises in the future.
As European Union leaders restated their opposing views on Iraq, their foreign ministers debated the impending U.S.-led war against Iraq with EU president Greece keeping up appearances with a pledge to pursue a last ditch effort to avoid war.
Joschka Fischer and Dominique de Villepin, the German and French foreign ministers, were to attend a special United Nations Security Council meeting in New York Wednesday, called to issue a last-minute appeal for a peaceful solution to the Iraq crisis.
''For us the United Natgions is the key authority'' in resolving the Iraq crisis, Fischer told reporters opn arrival at the EU meeting.
''War is not justified,'' Fishcer told reporters.
''As members of the United Nations Security Council we want to restate that we want a peacefiul solution.''
De Villepin made no comment on arrival.
Ahead of the EU meeting, Greek Foreign Minister Georhge Papandreou told reporters, ''We have to, and we will continue, to search for a peaceful solution to the crisis.''
The EU meeting could not hide the fact the Iraq crisis has made a mockery of EU aspirations to craft a common foreign policy.
Britain, Spain, Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands and Portugal back the United States while France and Germany lead a group of nations opposing military action.
``I would like to see that the European Union countries will come through this difficult moment with a determination to work for peace and look to the future,'' EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said.
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw remained in London for a debate in which the Blair government sought parliamentary approval for its decision to use ``all means necessary'' to disarm Saddam.
Blair was confident of retaining the support of a majority of parliament as he can count on votes from opposition Conservatives.
He told the House of Commons the Iraq crisis was testing the fundamentals of international relations.
``It will determine the way Britain and the world confront the central security threat of the 21st century; the development of the United Nations; the relationship between Europe and the United States; the relations within the European Union; and the way that the United States engages with the rest of the world,'' said Blair.
``It will determine the pattern of international politics for the next generation,'' he said.
The EU foreign ministers met hours after U.S. President George W. Bush gave Saddam 48 hours to leave Iraq or face invasion.
French President Jacques Chirac said war without U.N blessing would undermine future disarmament efforts.
``Inspections (in Iraq) showed that they are a credible alternativ,'' Chirac said.
``To act without the legitimacy of the United Nations ... to favor the use of force over law, is taking a serious responsibility.''
In Berlin, German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said there was no justification for war.
``Does the threat posed by the Iraqi dictator justify a war, which is sure to kill thousands of innocent children, women and men?
My answer in this case was and is: No!''
Solana said the EU would help in the humanitarian crisis expected to follow an attack on Iraq.
The EU is set to release 20 million euros (US$21.5 million) in immediate humanitarian aid for Iraq if war breaks out and may dip into an ``emergency reserve'' of 250 million euros (US$269 million) for humanitarian relief.
Elsewhere in Europe: _ Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt, overruling his defense minister, said his government would allow the United States use of its territory for military transports.
In recent weeks, the U.S. military has been transporting military equipment from bases in Germany to the Gulf through the port of Antwerp.
Defense Minister Andre Flahaut said on the weekend Belgium would no longer allow such transits _ or use of Belgian airspace.
_ Greece began evacuating its embassy in Baghdad, saying all its personnel would be out of Iraq within a couple of days. _
The Dutch government, facing strong public anti-war pressure, said it would not commit fighting forces to the war against Iraq but added it supported the military campaign to disarm Saddam.
In neutral Switzerland, Foreign Minister Micheline Calmy-Rey said the United States' decision to proceed with military action weakened the United Nations.
``It will be up to U.N. member states to restore its credibility,'' she said.
Diller resigns as head of Vivendi Universal Entertainment
Barry Diller resigned as co-chief executive of Vivendi Universal Entertainment, saying it was appropriate for him to step down while Paris-based Vivendi Universal entertains bids for Universal Studios, Universal's theme parks and other entertainment assets.
Diller was appointed interim CEO of Vivendi Universal's U.S.-based entertainment assets last year while Vivendi Universal concentrated on repaying a massive debt.
Vivendi wants to sell Universal Studios, its Universal theme parks and television production company.
Former oilman Marvin Davis has offered $20 billion for VUE, plus Universal Music Group.
Vivendi also is holding talks with Viacom, MGM and other buyers interested in acquiring all or parts of its entertainment companies.
Diller served as co-CEO with Vivendi Universal chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou.
``My executive role was never intended to be permanent,'' Diller said in a statement Wednesday.
``Now that Vivendi Universal has begun a formal process in reviewing options for its entertainment assets, it is appropriate to step aside from any direct management responsibility.''
Diller, 61, remains chief executive officer of USA Interactive, which operates the Home Shopping Network, Ticketmaster, Match.com and Expedia, among other companies, and has a 5.4 percent stake in VUE.
Diller will continue to play a critical role in the future of Vivendi's entertainment arm.
He personally owns 1.5 percent of the joint venture.
Diller also owns preferred stock in Vivendi Universal Entertainment.
Diller also is believed to be interested in his own bid for one or more of the entertainment unit's assets, most likely the film studio.
In a recent interview, Diller told The Associated Press he would be interested in an opportunity to bid as long as it did not require him to serve as chief executive.
Diller has maintained his top interest is serving as head of USA Interactive.
Diller has served as head of Paramount and Twentieth Century Fox, where he helped launch the Fox Television network.
While at Fox, he was instrumental in creating such shows as ``Married with Children'' and ``The Simpsons.''
He started his entertainment career at ABC, where he is credited with creating the ``movie of the week'' concept.
Interactive fell $2.08, or nearly 8 percent, to $24.41 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange, where Vivendi's U.S. shares rose 35 cents to $15.15.
U.S. and British troops move on Basra following assault on Baghdad
U.S. and British troops were moving on the strategic southern port city of Basra Saturday after a massive aerial assault pounded Baghdad at dawn.
Thousands of beleaguered Iraqi soldiers in the south surrendered in the face of the major push.
The battle for Basra, an oil hub of some 1.3 million people, was underway by midday, with coalition troops trying to surround Iraqi positions and force a surrender.
U.S. aircraft bombed Iraqi tanks holding bridges close to the city.
Iraqi forces responded with artillery fire.
Earlier Saturday, Baghdad was again targeted, one day after a massive U.S. aerial bombardment in which more than 300 Tomahawk cruise missiles rained down on the capital.
The nine-story Security Headquarters in the Iraqi capital took a direct hit, strewing bricks, masonry and glass across the street in the al-Salhiya neighborhood of central Baghdad.
As coalition troops advanced, an entire Iraqi army division gave itself up, U.S. military officials said.
The division _ the 51st Infantry Division, with 8,000 men and as many as 200 tanks, a key unit in the defense of Basra _ was the largest defection in a day when Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's forces showed signs of crumbling.
Allied successes were marred by the collision of two Royal Navy helicopters over the Persian Gulf in which all six British crew members and one American were killed.
Saturday morning, American Marines and British troops rumbled along the main road from the Kuwaiti border to Basra, Highway 80, nicknamed the ``Highway of Death'' during the 1991 Gulf War, when U.S. airstrikes wiped out an Iraqi military convoy along it.
American units advancing west of Basra have already secured the Rumeila oil field, whose daily output of 1.3 million barrels makes it Iraq's most productive.
Until Basra, U.S. and British troops had encountered little resistance, even when they seized nearby Umm Qasr, and moved to secure key oil fields.
Iraqis mostly fought back with small arms, pistols, machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades.
Regular Iraqi forces had withdrawn from Basra but elements of Saddam's security forces are continuing to resist, British Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon said Saturday.
Other units moved into airfield complexes in western Iraq believed to have Scud missiles capable of reaching Israel, and possibly weapons of mass destruction.
Early Saturday, more units were waiting in Kuwait to smash through any Iraqi resistance.
Hundreds of tanks, armored personnel carriers, Humvees and trucks were lined up in parallel columns waiting in single-file to cross the Iraqi-Kuwait border.
By early next week, U.S. ground forces led by the Army's 3rd Infantry Division are likely to be at the outskirts of Baghdad, where they could face greater danger from the Republican Guard, some commanders said.
After weeks of delay, Turkey relented and agreed to let combat aircraft fly over its territory.
At the same time, however, Turkey sent 1,000 troops into northern Iraq, and the government said it would send more to prevent Iraqi Kurds from creating an independent state.
The United States strongly opposes any unilateral move by Turkey into northern Iraq.
A Turkish military spokesman on Saturday denied Turkish troops had crossed into Iraq.
The United States and Britain suffered their first casualties Thursday and Friday as they pushed into Iraq, with two U.S. Marines killed in combat and another eight British and four American Marines dying in a helicopter crash that appeared to be accidental.
There was no clear figure of Iraqi casualties.
Australian commandos, who have been operating deep in Iraq, destroyed a command and control post and killed a number of soldiers, according to the country's defense chief, Gen. Peter Cosgrove.
In an address Saturday, Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf told Iraqis that fighting had been ``fierce.''
He said most of those captured by allied forces were civilians, not soldiers.
He claimed Iraqi troops had destroyed five tanks.
He said more than 200 Iraqis had been injured, including women, children and other civilians who were being treated at five hospitals in Baghdad.
Hoon said Saddam's regime was crumbling under the pressure of a huge air assault.
``As last night's dramatic television coverage showed, the lights stayed on in Baghdad, but the instruments of tyranny are collapsing,'' he said.
Iraqi Vice President Taha Yasin Ramadan, speaking on Iraqi Radio, was quoted by the British Broadcasting Corp.'s monitoring service as accusing Britain and the United States of working to ``eliminate'' the state of Iraq.
In a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, Ramadan said, ``It is also regrettable and deplorable that the (U.N.)
General Secretariat has not issued any statement or reaction that condemns or deplores this aggression.''
Despite the heavy bombing, which the U.S.
Central Command said targeted military command and control installations, the Iraqi regime gave no sign of quitting.
Bombers have also hit targets in the northern cities of Mosul, Kirkuk and Tikrit, Saddam's hometown.
The Iraqi government released a video of Saddam, in uniform, meeting with his son Qusai, the commander of the Republican Guard, and the defense minister, Gen. Sultan Hashim Ahmad.
It was unclear when the video was made.
U.S. intelligence officials said the Iraqi command and control system was in disarray, and U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said, ``The regime is starting to lose control of their country.''
Canadian premier fined for drunken driving on Hawaiian vacation
The premier of the western Canadian province of British Columbia pleaded no contest to driving drunk during a Hawaiian vacation in January.
Gordon Campbell was ordered to pay fines and fees totaling $913, complete a 14-hour alcohol assessment program and have a substance abuse assessment.
Under a no contest plea, the defendant neither admits nor denies the charge but agrees not to contest it.
``Mr. Campbell is sufficiently embarrassed and ashamed for what he did, as well he should be,'' District Judge Reinette Cooper said Monday.
Campbell was not in court.
Lawyer Steven Barta said his client had already completed the required programs in Canada.
He also brought a check from Campbell to pay the fines and fees.
In the provincial capital of Victoria, Campbell said he was treated fairly and no longer drinks alcohol.
Campbell, 55, was pulled over Jan. 10 after police observed him driving erratically in a rented sport-utility vehicle.
Campbell's blood-alcohol reading was 0.161 percent, more than twice the legal limit, in a roadside sobriety test.
In a tearful news conference after returning to Vancouver two days later, Campbell apologized to British Columbians, but refused to resign as premier.
He said he drank three martinis and some wine before getting behind the wheel.
Jack Welch seeks details on estranged wife's work in divorce case
Retired General Electric Co. Chairman Jack Welch is seeking work-related documents of his estranged wife in his high-stakes divorce case.
The Welches disclosed their plans to divorce a year ago, shortly after Suzy Wetlaufer _ then editor of the Harvard Business Review _ revealed she had become romantically involved with Welch while working on a story about him.
In court papers filed this week in state Supreme Court in New York, Welch requested a deposition next month of David Heleniak, a senior partner in the law firm of Shearman & Sterling in New York.
He also wants to subpoena all documents maintained in Jane Beasley Welch's personnel file by Shearman & Sterling, a prestigious corporate law firm where she worked before she married Welch.
Welch specifically is seeking performance evaluations, correspondence between his estranged wife and partners while she worked at the law firm's office in London, and documents related to her prospects of becoming a partner.
Welch also wants details on Jane Beasley Welch's salary, benefits, retirement plan and other compensation paid to her.
Michael York, one of Jack Welch's attorneys, called the move routine.
A judge ruled in February that depositions in the divorce case will remain confidential.
Earlier documents in the case have included embarrassing details about perks Welch received as part of his retirement package from GE at a time when corporate scandals were sparking outrage.
The court order was requested by Jack Welch's attorney, Daniel K.
Webb, who said Welch would likely be asked about his business dealings, his health and entries in his personal diary.
Webb also said details of the breakdowns of the Welches' previous marriages were likely to come up, and cited reports of alleged extramarital affairs by both.
Welch has previously failed in an attempt to temporarily seal a financial affidavit.
That document detailed monthly outlays of some $51,000 for upkeep on a half-dozen houses scattered from Massachusetts to Florida, more than $52,000 for gifts and nearly $9,000 for food and drink, among other expenses.
